# Comp-Mus
## -PLEASE DO NOT SHOW THIS PORTFOLIO IN CLASS-   
    
My wish in this class is to compare the pop music of Japan (also called City Pop) and the West, particularly of the US based in the late 70's and 80's. To to do this I am comparing two groups of three artists. The Japanese group consist of the artists Taeko Onuki, Miki Matsubara and Haruomi Hasono, especially the first two have become very popular even these days due to the surge of city pop's popularity. The US counterparts are the artists Michael Jackson, Whitney Houston and Madonna. These artists were chosen due to their popularity in the western world in the 80's. I chose these corpora because I want to explore whether there are distinct differences between the genre of (city) pop as it was in Japan in the 80's vs the pop that was popular in the western world in the same decade. Japanese city pop was influenced by western music, so I expect there to be many similarities in use of sound, instruments and type of rhythms. However, an aspect I am particularly interested whether there is a difference is the baselines and the use of bass in general. Other aspects like supplementary sounds (for the lack of a better term). However, I am unsure to what extent they are different, as city pop is influenced by western pop music.   
    
As I have chosen three artists to represent their own (variety) of genres, there might be nuances and representations I am missing. Taeko Onuki and Miki Matsubara were chosen due to their popularity on Spotify (the amount of general listeners as well as listens to their tracks), and Haruomi Hasono was chosen due to his apparent contributions to Japanese pop. The same method was done in choosing the western counterparts. However, the genre(s) is (are) very broad, despite its popularity, and some varieties might have been overlooked. However, their popularity is a strength, as they can more easily be referred to. 
  
Typical, and popular, tracks from each artist are Matsubara's "Mayonaka no Door/ Stay With Me", Onuki's "4:00A.M." and Hasono's "スポーマン (2019 Remastering)" (transcribed as "Sportsman"). These songs are typical in the sense that there are prominent use of basslines and clear rhythms, and have many layers to them, especially Hasono's. Atypical songs .... TO BE CONTINUED. 

